- [Instructor] Now let us understand are the steps that
you need to take in order to setup the application
that we're going to build as a part of this course.
We are going to build and H+ Sport application,
which does a lot of sport facilities for the customer.
Let's take a look at the application inside the browser.
This is how it looks like, and there are a lot of
hyperlinks in the top right corner doing a lot of stuff
for the customer. If you look at the entire page
there's company history, and then their products,
and their guarantees, and their ideas, people working,
searching a product. All of this is the first landing
page of the application, and then you can actually go on
and look at the history, the products,
and the people of the organization.
You can also click on the login,
and you can enter your login credentials,
and then go ahead with the remaining flow.
You could also actually register yourself as a new user
while on the register user page.
You can also go to LinkedIn, if you want,
from this web application, that's also possible.
Then we're going to explore each of these use cases
as we build in our application.
Now, in order to get started with this project,
what you need to do is, this is your sample project
that we created during the setup. Right?
Now, inside this there's a lot a basic code that you
have to take so that you're able to work on with the
Servlets and JSP code. What I mean by this is,
if you look at this application it has got
a lot of beautiful colors, images, and all
of the CSS styling. HTML and CSS code is not going to be
the focal point of the discussion of this course.
So, what we are going to do is, we are going to provide
the HTML, the CSS, and the image
files in the exercise folder. What you could do is,
you could just paste them onto your fresh project,
then you can get started with the development.
So, in order to paste those files lets come to the
exercise files. Chapter one or "01_05"
and under the resources folder I have the H+ application.
Now what we need to do is, we need to go to the web
content, take these three folders; CSS, HTML, and images.
Copy them, go to our workspace on Eclipse and just paste
them on to the web content directory of your fresh project.
Once you do that all your HTML and styling code is
now available to you as a part of these folders.
So, now whenever you start your development,
you can get started by just plugging these Sevlets
and the JSP code. So we have the HTML and CSS files
that we've pasted on to. Now lets understand what
we are going to implement as a part of this application.
The end eye application is going to be based on
an MVC architecture, which is model, view, and controller.
We are not going to have a scenario,
we are just going to write all the code in the Sevlet class,
because that reads reduce maintainability.
So, instead of that we are going to properly implement
an MVC architecture. We'll have three componence of view,
a controller, and a model. The view is going to be
the JSP or the HTML file, so initially when we start up
with this corse for the first few topics it will be HTMLs,
and then after that it'll just be JSP files.
The controller is that component of your application
which is going to intercept, request, and prepare
the response, and the Servlet class is the one in our
application which is going to do this for us.
So, Servlet is going to be the controller.
Then we have the model, the model that part of
your application which gently transacts,
converses with the database. So we are going to implement
a design pattern called data access object, which is
nothing but a class that you write in your project which
is going to hold all the methods to connect to the
database and do all the transactions against it.
So lets say if you're trying to implement any used case
in our application, what we are going to do is,
go from the view that is the JSP or the HTML to
the Servlet first. From the Servlet we will call DAO layer.
The DAO is then going to talk to the database.
It will get all the data then return to the Servlet.
Then, the Servlet will decide what is supposed to be done
with the data and what response has to be written back
to the client. Then, the response will be carried to
the browser, and that's where we'll display it.
So, this is the cycle that we're going to follow for most
of the used cases we're implementing as a part of
the application for this course.
As for the database setup for this application,
we are going to use my security base server.
The schema name that you create for that particular
application is completely a name of your choice.
We are going with the name of H+ itself so the
schema name for this application is H+,
and the tables that you're going to use
in this application are users,
which is going to store all the user information,
then the products, which is going to store
all the product related information for the application,
and an orders table which is going to store an order history
of a particular user, as in what type of products did the
user deliver for himself or herself in the past history.
So those are the three tables that we're going to work
with, of course you have a completely body of expanding
the schema, and add on more tables for any further
development of the application.